# TAX SACRIFICE
Tax burden is measured by dividing what the state collects in taxes and the country's production. Richard Bird in 1964 carried out a work entitled 'A note on tax sacrifice comparisson' where he explained that the fiscal effort made by a citizen who can live comfortably with an average job, which allows him to save for his retirement, is not equal in comparison with that of a country with more miserable living conditions. These countries where living conditions are worse, always follow the same line of economic theory, which states that a rise in taxes will end in an increase in consumption. Unfortunately, history shows that this ends up producing more informal economy and capital flight. Therefore, the state collects less than before and, consequently, goes to the central bank, so even if it does not collect it can spend as if it did. Which ends in an inflationary disaster that breaks the productive structures of the country.

The reference document in Spanish is 'The measurement of fiscal effort in Spain' by R. Calle Saiz. In this document the author shows the different ways to measure the fiscal effort showing the drawbacks that each method has. One of them is that proposed by Richard Bird in his text 'A note on Tax Sacrifice Comparisson'. This index is a simple indicator, there are econometric models that take into account more things, such as the efficiency of the public sector.

First I made a simple table of comparissons between diferent countries arround the world, and a graphic that shows the contrasts. Then I made a simple graphic with te comparisson of my native country, Argentina, plus 20 other countries arround the world. Then I compare the best option of the example, Germany, with the other countries. The last sheet is the data base that I used with all the sources on it.
